---
ID: 3266
post_title: Unit 5 – LA2 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'Cerit, Y. (2009). The effects of servant leadership behaviours of school principals on teachers&rsquo; job satisfaction.&nbsp;Educational Management Administration and Leadership, 37(5), 600-623. What sampling strategy was used and was it justified? Purposive sampling appears to be the strategy used in the above article. There isn&rsquo;t any random sampling. The researcher has selected their participants based &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/04/unit-5-la2-bp1-2/">Continue reading <span>Unit 5 &ndash; LA2 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/04/unit-5-la2-bp1-2/
published: true
post_date: 2018-02-04 01:04:07
---
Cerit, Y. (2009). The effects of servant leadership behaviours of school principals on teachers’ job satisfaction. <em>Educational Management Administration and Leadership, 37</em>(5), 600-623.

<strong>What sampling strategy was used and was it justified?</strong>

Purposive sampling appears to be the strategy used in the above article. There isn&#8217;t any random sampling. The researcher has selected their participants based on their location and job roles quite specifically I think to ensure a representative sample. With a response rate of 85%, this article has sampled a high majority of the chosen participants. However, although the demographics of participants who responded is demonstrated in the paper, it does not give an overview of the demographics of the whole teaching faculty within the primary schools. I am unsure if this is necessary but it would help provide certain clarity that representative sampling has occurred.

<strong>Is the sample size appropriate and justified?</strong>

Plano-Clark &amp; Creswell (2015, p.237) state &#8220;As a general rule of thumb for quantitative research the larger the size of the sample, the better.&#8221; The article analyzed has a sample size of 595 teachers. This is significantly over the 350 participants minimum recommended for a survey style data capture. (Plano-Clark &amp; Creswell, 2015). I think for the intended outcomes of the study that the numbers are justified. It presents significant data for the district in Turkey being studied and also enhances the author&#8217;s argument for further research in other locations in their conclusion.

<strong>Are good quality measures used to gather data? How do you know they are good quality?</strong>

The instruments used to gather data appear comprehensive. Servant leadership was measured using the servant leadership scale developed by Laub (as cited in Cerit, 2009). The Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin, and Bartlett Sphericity test were also exercised in the servant leadership section of the survey. Job satisfaction was measured using the Mohrman-Cooke-Mohrman ( as cited in Cerit, 2009) job satisfaction questionnaire. The whole survey used Likert ranging.

<strong>Are the data gathered using ethical procedures?</strong>

There is no evidence to suggest a conflict of interest or unethical data collection.

<ul>
<li>What sampling strategy was used and was it justified? (2)</li>
<li>Is the sample size appropriate and justified? (3)</li>
<li>Are good quality measures used to gather data? How do you know they are good quality? (3)</li>
<li>Are the data gathered using ethical procedures? (3)</li>
</ul>

<strong>Overall Score = 11</strong>

<strong>References</strong>

Cerit, Y. (2009). The effects of servant leadership behaviours of school principals on teachers’ job satisfaction. <em>Educational Management Administration and Leadership, 37</em>(5), 600-623.

Plano-Clark, V., &amp; Creswell, J. (2015). <em>Understanding research: A consumer’s guide</em> (2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson.

<a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-5-learning-activities/">Learning Activity Link</a>