---
ID: 2978
post_title: Unit 4 – LA3 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'Sendjaya, S &amp; Sarros J. C. (2002). Servant leadership: its origin, development, and application in&nbsp;organizations.&nbsp;Journal of Leadership and Organization Studies,&nbsp;9(2), 57-64. This article includes a variety of relevant literature and sources. It outlines the journey servant leadership studies have taken from the initial Greenleaf (as cited in Sendjaya &amp; Sarros, 2002) publications to the more &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/01/26/unit-4-la3-bp1/">Continue reading <span>Unit 4 &ndash; LA3 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/01/26/unit-4-la3-bp1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-01-25 19:51:10
---
Sendjaya, S &amp; Sarros J. C. (2002). Servant leadership: its origin, development, and application in organizations. <em>Journal of Leadership and Organization Studies,</em> 9(2), 57-64.

This article includes a variety of relevant literature and sources. It outlines the journey servant leadership studies have taken from the initial Greenleaf (as cited in Sendjaya &amp; Sarros, 2002) publications to the more modern Bass (as cited in Sendjaya &amp; Sarros, 2002) works.

The sources include a variety of peer-reviewed journals and articles that are within ten years of the publication of this article. The literature review is not formalized in the paper. However, it is included as part of the introduction phase. Plano-Clark &amp; Cresswell (2015) confirm this is not an uncommon practice.

The synthesization and analysis of the literature is where I feel the article is slightly weaker. Although a vast number of references appear the justification for them in the text isn&#8217;t always addressed. If I were new to the topic, I feel this paper would require further background reading and knowledge to appreciate the literature review presented entirely. This isn&#8217;t necessarily a bad thing, however, with an article claiming to focus on the origin and development of servant leadership I would expect potentially less literature analyzed more thoroughly.

The article certainly has a strong foundation in literature and justifies many points and conclusions with it. As mentioned in my previous post, however, I am surprised the article doesn&#8217;t go on to thoroughly analyze or evaluate what future research is required for the topic. I feel this would further enhance the article and the vast amount of literature study that has gone into it.

<ul>
<li>Does the review include relevant literature? (3)</li>
<li>Does the review examine sources that are recent and of high quality? (3)</li>
<li>Is the literature review documented properly? (3)</li>
<li>Is the literature thoughtfully synthesized? (2)</li>
<li>Is the literature critically examined? (1)</li>
<li>Does the study have a strong foundation in the literature? (3)</li>
<li>Does the literature fit the study’s overall approach? (2)</li>
</ul>

Overall Score &#8211; 17 &#8211; (High Quality)

<strong>References</strong>

Plano-Clark, V., &amp; Creswell, J. (2015). <em>Understanding research: A consumer’s guide</em> (2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson.

Sendjaya, S &amp; Sarros J. C. (2002). Servant leadership: its origin, development, and application in organizations. <em>Journal of Leadership and Organization Studies,</em> 9(2), 57-64.

<a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-4-learning-activities/">Learning Activity Link</a>