---
ID: 3742
post_title: Unit 10 – LA1 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'In this unit, the question is a little different. I want to know, if after taking this class, would you make your decisions differently? What new insights have you learned and how would those insights inform your decision-making process now? The last ten weeks have certainly emphasized to me the importance of evaluating the media &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/03/06/unit-10-la1-bp1-2/">Continue reading <span>Unit 10 &ndash; LA1 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/03/06/unit-10-la1-bp1-2/
published: true
post_date: 2018-03-05 14:44:06
---
<strong>In this unit, the question is a little different. I want to know, if after taking this class, would you make your decisions differently? What new insights have you learned and how would those insights inform your decision-making process now?</strong>

The last ten weeks have certainly emphasized to me the importance of evaluating the media sources and information I consume on a daily basis. The truth is we all tend to use information when we make decisions. It is therefore essential that information we are using as a tool in that process is both genuine and accurate. Digging into the authenticity of a headline is another habit I have acquired. I found myself reading a newspaper the other day with a large headline stating that processed meats cause cancer. Although, undeniably some research is starting to emerge linking the two the study highlighted in this article was around 200 people, hardly enough evidence to stop me reaching for the bacon at the grocery store!

We all consume information so quickly nowadays that often we just assume headlines and titles as facts. Twitter, Flipboard, Facebook, and even the way news apps are designed on our devices is to give us the information in limited character format. One thing I have appreciated about this Master&#8217;s program so far is that it forces you to take your time reading and processing. My day to day is a constant barrage of dings on my phone, iWatch, and computer. Sitting down and processing information and evaluating it more methodically and intentionally I have found a more rewarding experience.

Learning to evaluate the significance of a decision is the final thing I would like to highlight. By being able to separate decisions of more vital importance, it has enabled me to take a step back and give more appropriate time and effort in making more significant decisions. Using research as a tool in this process and gathering evidence to back up my decision or opinion is also another technique I have developed.

<a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-10-learning-activities/">Learning Activity Link</a>