---
ID: 3357
post_title: LDRS 591 Activity 5.3
author: Simarjit
post_excerpt: 'LDRS 591 Activity 6.3 Unit 6 Learning Activities &nbsp; Carter, D., &amp; Baghurst, T. (2014). The influence of servant leadership on restaurant employee engagement. Journal of Business Ethics, 124, 453-464. &nbsp; Did the analysis process use rigorous qualitative procedures? They received transcripts of the audio recordings of focus group discussions. The Researcher used manual coding [&hellip;]'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/icandothis/2018/02/06/ldrs-591-activity-5-3-2/
published: true
post_date: 2018-02-06 20:34:51
---
LDRS 591 Activity 6.3

<blockquote class="wp-embedded-content" data-secret="oiKZ9Lrwce"><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-6-learning-activities/">Unit 6 Learning Activities</a></p></blockquote>



<iframe class="wp-embedded-content" sandbox="allow-scripts" security="restricted" src="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-6-learning-activities/embed/#?secret=oiKZ9Lrwce" data-secret="oiKZ9Lrwce" width="600" height="338" title="&#8220;Unit 6 Learning Activities&#8221; &#8212; Leadership 591: Scholarly Inquiry" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

&nbsp;

<span style="float: none;background-color: transparent;color: #333333;cursor: text;font-family: 'Lato',Helvetica,sans-serif;font-size: 16px;font-style: normal;font-variant: normal;font-weight: 400;letter-spacing: normal;text-align: left;text-decoration: none;text-indent: 0px">Carter, D., &amp; Baghurst, T. (2014). The influence of servant leadership on restaurant employee engagement. <em>Journal of Business Ethics, 124,</em> 453-464.</span>

&nbsp;

<strong>Did the analysis process use rigorous qualitative procedures?</strong>

They received transcripts of the audio recordings of focus group discussions. The Researcher used manual coding by using key-words. They addressed bias by applying Epoche. ( I don&#8217;t know what this is) . Score 3.

<strong>Did the researchers use at least 3 strategies to validate the findings?</strong>

The researchers mentioned using bracketing and triangulation. Score 2

<strong>Did the findings include a good description of the people, places, or events in the study?</strong>

The authors included participant quotes in their data analysis. They included one table on focus group responses on servant leader qualities. Score 2.

<strong>Did the findings include appropriate themes about the central phenomenon? </strong>

They identified 5 predominant themes from their data analysis. These themes cover their central phenomenon. They quoted participant quotes in their discussion about themes. Score 3

<strong>Did the findings relate multiple themes to each other?</strong>

The authors did not connect the themes through a text or table. They did bring them together in the discussion section. It is not clear from the discussion though if there is a correlation between the themes. Score 1.

<strong>Did data analysis represent a good qualitative process?</strong>

Overall I think this is an example of a good quality qualitative data analysis. I do not believe that the themes necessarily have to be connected, as by definition a qualitative study is &#8216;explorative&#8217;. Presenting themes as they emerge from the study takes precedence over trying to find a connection. Score 3.

<strong>Did the findings provide a good exploration of the central phenomenon? </strong>

The findings did provide detailed information about the central phenomenon of servant leadership from the perspective of restaurant employees. In the conclusion authors mention that through data analysis they identified employee engagement drivers such as peer relationship, open communication and flexibility. Score 3.

&nbsp;

Overall score: 17. High quality study.

&nbsp;