---
ID: 2349
post_title: Activity 1.2
author: Simarjit
post_excerpt: '&nbsp; Unit 1 Learning Activities I have to confess that I hadn&rsquo;t had the opportunity or reason to contemplate my worldview, much less put it in writing. This activity made me reflect on my worldview.&nbsp; Merriam-Webster describes worldview as &lsquo;a comprehensive conception or apprehension of the world especially from a specific standpoint&rsquo;; for the purpose [&hellip;]'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/icandothis/2018/01/02/activity-1-2/
published: true
post_date: 2018-01-02 21:11:38
---
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<blockquote class="wp-embedded-content" data-secret="XAd3mYSw9r"><p><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-1-learning-activities/">Unit 1 Learning Activities</a></p></blockquote>
<p><iframe class="wp-embedded-content" sandbox="allow-scripts" security="restricted" src="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-1-learning-activities/embed/#?secret=XAd3mYSw9r" data-secret="XAd3mYSw9r" width="600" height="338" title="&#8220;Unit 1 Learning Activities&#8221; &#8212; Leadership 591: Scholarly Inquiry" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe></p>
<p>I have to confess that I hadn&#8217;t had the opportunity or reason to contemplate my worldview, much less put it in writing. This activity made me reflect on my worldview.  Merriam-Webster describes worldview as &#8216;a comprehensive conception or apprehension of the world especially from a specific standpoint&#8217;; for the purpose of this post we will assume this is one&#8217;s individual standpoint. As per G. K. Chesterton “the most practical and important thing about a man is his view of the universe” (1986, p. 41). I believe there is a conscious or subconscious set of beliefs and values that determines most, if not all, our decisions and interactions; and this is my interpretation of the idea of worldview.</p>
<p>As per Valk et al (2015), leadership study &#8220;encourages awareness of one’s own view or vision of life as a means to better engage with others. &#8221; In my case, my decisions as a leader are not much different from my decisions as a human being, In terms of my personal interactions, my decisions are based on empathy. I strive to &#8216;do unto others as you would have them do unto you &#8216; . In a professional or organizational context I tend to make decisions depending on what works for the larger good. I also tend to be frugal and try to do the most with the least.  Valk et al (2015) state that &#8221; One’s view of the world is initially shaped by the immediate context out of which one emerges—family, community, social, and cultural environments.&#8221; If we added religion to this statement, it would explain the basis of my worldview in totality. In this sense I agree with the authors that one&#8217;s worldview influences our process of seeking answers. I grew up in a culture and society that has limited resources, and that has made me very averse to waste. I also belong to a religion that believes in sharing and kindness, hence my empathetic approach to leadership. Having said that, I would like to argue that not all decisions made by one are based on their worldview, especially in our professional lives. I for one can confirm that a lot of my decisions are based on hard -core research, expert opinion , best practices or company policy.</p>
<p>Sometimes our worldview conflicts with company policy or professional expectation. How does one reconcile the two ? What if one had to choose one or the other?</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>References</p>
<p>Chesterton, G. K. (1986). The collected works of G. K. Chesterton (Vol. 1). San Francisco, CA: Ignatius.</p>
<p>Valk, J.; Belding, S.; Crumpton, A.; Harter, N.; Reams, J. (2011). Worldviews and Leadership: Thinking and acting the bigger pictures. Journal of Leadership Studies. Summer2011, Vol. 5 Issue 2, p54-63.</p>
<p>Merriam-Webster. Retrieved Jan 2, 2018 from https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/worldview. Retrieved</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>