---
ID: 2967
post_title: Unit 4 – LA2 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'Sendjaya, S &amp; Sarros J. C. (2002). Servant leadership: its origin, development, and application in&nbsp;organizations. Journal of Leadership and Organization Studies, 9(2), 57-64. The topic had strong personal interest for me as a leadership student and practicing Christian. However, I tried to look at it from a critical standpoint. Although the article does a thorough &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/01/25/unit-4-la2-bp1/">Continue reading <span>Unit 4 &ndash; LA2 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/01/25/unit-4-la2-bp1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-01-25 00:24:53
---
Sendjaya, S &amp; Sarros J. C. (2002). Servant leadership: its origin, development, and application in organizations. <em>Journal of Leadership and Organization Studies,</em> 9(2), 57-64.

The topic had strong personal interest for me as a leadership student and practicing Christian. However, I tried to look at it from a critical standpoint. Although the article does a thorough job of identifying essential principles of servant leadership including the origin and development. I felt more could have been done to expand on analyzing the effectiveness of servant leadership in organizations. Case studies used in Northouse (2016)&#8217;s servant leadership chapter develop, in my opinion, a more explicit demonstration of effective servant leadership.

I struggled to identify a problem that is mainly focused on in this article. The article suggests that there is a lack of research into servant leadership. However, towards the conclusion states &#8220;recommendations for future research need to be established if servant leadership is to become a valuable leadership theory&#8221; (Sendjaya &amp; Sarros, 2002, p. 63). I expected this paper to give some of those recommendations.

If this papers main aim is to raise the profile of servant leadership and try and justify further research and study, then it is successful. It gives a succinct timeline of the history of servant leadership and why its founding principles are still relevant today. However,  I would suggest the audience for this article may perhaps be somewhat niche. Overall, I feel the article is well written and continues to raise the profile of servant leadership as a model. It does, however, leave me questioning the primary purpose and intended outcomes.

<ul>
<li>Is the topic interesting? (2)</li>
<li>Is there a meaningful problem? (2)</li>
<li>Is the importance of the problem justified? (2)</li>
<li>Are there deficiencies in the knowledge about the problem? (1)</li>
<li>Is an audience identified and are there specific examples of how the audience can use the missing knowledge? (1)</li>
<li>Does the passage clearly argue that the study is warranted? (1)</li>
<li>Is the passage well written? (2)</li>
</ul>

Overall Score &#8211; 11 &#8211; (Adequate Quality)

<strong>References</strong>

Northouse, P. G. (2016). <em>Leadership – </em>theory<em> and practice</em> – seventh edition. Los Angeles: Sage.

Sendjaya, S &amp; Sarros J. C. (2002). Servant leadership: its origin, development, and application in organizations. <em>Journal of Leadership and Organization Studies,</em> 9(2), 57-64.

<a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-4-learning-activities/">Learning Activity Link</a>