---
ID: 3531
post_title: Unit 7 – LA1 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'What is at the heart of the quantitative/qualitative debate? Creswell (2013) argues in his video that we are already consumers of a mixed method approach to information on a daily basis via our media consumption. Using various case studies, he outlines that using both quantitative and qualitative data together can help present a more precise &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/18/unit-7-la1-bp1-2/">Continue reading <span>Unit 7 &ndash; LA1 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/18/unit-7-la1-bp1-2/
published: true
post_date: 2018-02-17 21:36:50
---
<strong>What is at the heart of the quantitative/qualitative debate?</strong>

Creswell (2013) argues in his video that we are already consumers of a mixed method approach to information on a daily basis via our media consumption. Using various case studies, he outlines that using both quantitative and qualitative data together can help present a more precise picture and complete understanding. In contrast, Plano-Clark &amp; Creswell (2015) suggest a significant challenge to the implementation of mixed method research. Stating &#8220;researchers need to have a good reason for choosing to combine quantitative and qualitative research&#8221; (Plano-Clark &amp; Creswell, 2015, p.385). Ensuring that both the quantitative and qualitative data is rigorously analyzed in a mixed method research approach was a pivotal point presented by both Creswell (2013) and Plano-Clark and Creswell (2015). Failure to achieve this appears to automatically bring into question the validity of the research and the justification for using mixed method research. It seems to be a high risk/high reward approach.

<strong>How</strong> <strong>has mixed methods been seen as a remedy for advancing leadership research?</strong>

Northouse (2016, p.1) states &#8220;research findings on leadership provide a picture of a process far more sophisticated and complex than the often simplistic view presented in some of the popular books on leadership.&#8221; It is that complex nature of leadership which appears to lend itself to the argument for more mixed method research studies. As Stentz, Plano-Clark, &amp; Matkin (2012, p. 1173) identify &#8220;these complexities can be embraced and celebrated as positive challenges or grieved as overwhelming impossibilities.&#8221; It appears that mixed methods could be the research tool to tackle some of these difficulties. However, as mentioned previously it is crucial that mixed methods are used only in appropriate research models, and that analysis is conducted rigorously regardless of whether convergent or explanatory sequential design is used.

<strong>Question?</strong>

Creswell (2013) outlines that mixed method approach is used widely in mainstream media already. My question is, do you think people have a natural personal preference towards connecting with data or stories more? If so, where does this come from?

<strong>References</strong>

Creswell, J. [John Creswell]. (2013, February, 19). <em>What is mixed method research. </em>[Video File]. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=799&amp;v=1OaNiTlpyX8

Northouse, P. G. (2016). <em>Leadership – </em>theory<em> and practice</em> – seventh edition. Los Angeles: Sage.

Plano-Clark, V., &amp; Creswell, J. (2015). <em>Understanding research: A consumer’s guide</em> (2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson.

Stentz, J. E., Plano-Clark, V. L., &amp; Matkin, G. S. (2012). Applying mixed methods to leadership research: A review of current practices. <em>The Leadership Quarterly, 23</em>(6), 1173-1183.