---
ID: 3704
post_title: LDRS 591 Activity 10.1
author: Simarjit
post_excerpt: 'LDRS 591 Activity 10.1 &nbsp; Unit 10 Learning Activities &nbsp; &ldquo;if after taking this class, would you make your decisions differently? What new insights have you learned and how would those insights inform your decision making process now?&rdquo; &nbsp; The two recent decisions that I posted about in activity 10.1 were my decision about blood [&hellip;]'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/icandothis/2018/03/04/ldrs-591-activity-10-1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-03-04 16:40:48
---
LDRS 591 Activity 10.1

&nbsp;

<blockquote class="wp-embedded-content" data-secret="rvNYhKQKwP"><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-10-learning-activities/">Unit 10 Learning Activities</a></p></blockquote>



<iframe class="wp-embedded-content" sandbox="allow-scripts" security="restricted" src="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-10-learning-activities/embed/#?secret=rvNYhKQKwP" data-secret="rvNYhKQKwP" width="600" height="338" title="&#8220;Unit 10 Learning Activities&#8221; &#8212; Leadership 591: Scholarly Inquiry" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

&nbsp;

&#8220;if after taking this class, would you make your decisions differently? What new insights have you learned and how would those insights inform your decision making process now?&#8221;

&nbsp;

The two recent decisions that I posted about in activity 10.1 were my decision about blood pressure treatment of my patients and the recommendations for flu vaccination. The blood pressure treatment recommendation was made based on recent peer reviewed publications, some guidance from past experiences and expert opinion. The recommendations for flu vaccination were made according to the most recent guidelines from the CDC and the local health department, with some guidance from organizational policy. Since these decisions were not mine alone, I don&#8217;t think my decisions would have changed based on what I learned from this course.  I feel compelled to admit here that most of our decisions as physicians are based on a combination of guidelines, peer reviewed research, best practices and organizational policy.

During the course of my studies of LDRS 591,  I have learned some very important tips on how to evaluate scholarly research articles, so that I can gain the most information from them and apply it usefully . In the last few units I learnt about APA style writing. I also learnt about mixed methods research which is a new concept for me. Another new concept is action research. It was very insightful to learn about action research, and how to carry on an action research project. For me as a non academic practitioner, this was very useful. I can translate the knowledge I gained from action research unit and apply it to some practical problems at work. This course has given me the tools to assess scholarly research and to apply research to my workplace.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;