---
ID: 2962
post_title: LDRS 591 Activity 4.4
author: Simarjit
post_excerpt: 'Unit 4 Learning Activities Purpose statements and research questions &nbsp; Is the study&rsquo;s purpose clearly specified? The study&rsquo;s purpose was clearly spelled out &ldquo;Our purpose was to test the relationship between personality, servant leadership, and critical follower and organizational outcomes.&rdquo; (Hunter et al., 2015). This is a quantitative study. It also specifies the intent, framework [&hellip;]'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/icandothis/2018/01/24/ldrs-591-activity-4-4/
published: true
post_date: 2018-01-24 18:24:00
---
<blockquote class="wp-embedded-content" data-secret="ymRf13rHPq"><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-4-learning-activities/">Unit 4 Learning Activities</a></p></blockquote>



<iframe class="wp-embedded-content" sandbox="allow-scripts" security="restricted" src="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-4-learning-activities/embed/#?secret=ymRf13rHPq" data-secret="ymRf13rHPq" width="600" height="338" title="&#8220;Unit 4 Learning Activities&#8221; &#8212; Leadership 591: Scholarly Inquiry" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

Purpose statements and research questions

&nbsp;

<strong>Is the study’s purpose clearly specified?</strong>

The study&#8217;s purpose was clearly spelled out &#8220;Our purpose was to test the relationship between personality, servant leadership, and critical follower and organizational outcomes.&#8221; (Hunter et al., 2015). This is a quantitative study. It also specifies the intent, framework and participants later in the introduction . I will rate this <strong>3</strong>.

<strong>Is the focus of the study appropriate?</strong>

They identified the independent and dependent variables they intended to study. I could not find mention of control or confounding variables. I will give this element a score of <strong>2</strong>.

<strong>Is the overall intent of the study appropriate?</strong>

They delineated the main variables- they proposed and tested a model that integrated multiple levels of theory and analysis, applied theories oof social learning and social exchange, and examined leader personality as a predictor of outcomes. This scores a<strong> 3</strong>.

<strong>Are the participants and the sites appropriate?</strong>

The participants were selected from a retail chain: store managers and employees. Out of the 385 store managers, 110 responded. The authors tried to eliminate response bias by studying the servant leadership and service climate ratings from the non responding stores. They found that the servant leadership ratings were not significantly different, but service climate ratings were significantly higher for stores with a responding store manager. This difference wasn&#8217;t statistically significant though. I will give them a score of<strong> 3</strong> on this element.

<strong>Is the purpose of the study narrowed through appropriate research questions and/or hypotheses?</strong>

The formulated 2 hypotheses: (1) Leader agreeableness is positively related to follower perceptions of servant leadership. (2) Leader extraversion is negatively related to follower perceptions of servant leadership. (3) Individual-level servant leadership is negatively related to follower turnover intentions. (4) Individual-level servant leadership is negatively related to follower turnover intentions. (5) Store-level servant leadership is positively related to follower helping behavior (task and person-focused OCB-I) (6) Service climate mediates the relationship between store-level servant leadership and follower turnover intentions. (7) Service climate mediates the relationship between store-level servant leadership and follower disengagement.. (8) Service climate mediates the relationship between store-level servant leadership and follower helping behavior (task and person-focused OCB-I). (9) Service climate mediates the relationship between store-level servant leadership and follower sales behavior. (10) Service climate mediates the relationship between store-level servant leadership and store sales performance. I will rate this a <strong>2</strong>.

<strong>Does the purpose of the study follow logically from the statement of the problem and the literature review?</strong>

Like I mentioned in my previous study, some purpose of this study seems to duplicate some of the results from previous studies mentioned in literature review. I will rate this a <strong>2</strong>.

<strong>Is the purpose consistent with the study’s overall approach?</strong>

This study is vast with the authors attempting to study 10 hypotheses. It is not &#8220;narrow or specific&#8221; as per the evaluation criteria laid out in Plano-Clark and Creswell (2015, p. 184). It does have a lot of information, but at times becomes a tedious read. I will rate this <strong>2</strong>, because it has the other elements of the above mentioned criteria point 7 (Plano-Clark &amp; Creswell, 2015, p. 184)

&nbsp;

Overall score- 17 (High quality)

&nbsp;

References

&nbsp;

Hunter, E. M., Neubert, M. J., Perry, S. J., Witt, L. A., Penny, L. M., &amp; Weinberger, E. (2013). Servant leaders inspire servant followers: Antecedents and outcomes for employees and the organization. <em>Leadership Quarterly, 24</em>(2), 316-331.

Plano-Clark, V., Creswell, J. (2015). <em>Understanding research: A consumer&#8217;s guide.</em> (2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson.