---
ID: 3730
post_title: LDRS591, Unit 10, Activity 10.2
author: Leona So
post_excerpt: 'Evidence and credibility are key themes in this class as we explored practices of accessing, evaluating, and applying research into leadership. As I consider the significance of what we learned, evidence-based decision making is crucial for the Transformational Servant leader because seeking truth and serving followers is inherent to Transformational Servant Leadership. Imbenzi, Page, and &hellip; <p><a href="https://create.twu.ca/soleona/2018/03/05/ldrs591-unit-10-activity-10-2/">Continue reading<span> "LDRS591, Unit 10, Activity 10.2"</span></a></p>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/soleona/2018/03/05/ldrs591-unit-10-activity-10-2/
published: true
post_date: 2018-03-04 23:12:32
---
Evidence and credibility are key themes in this class as we explored practices of accessing, evaluating, and applying research into leadership. As I consider the significance of what we learned, evidence-based decision making is crucial for the Transformational Servant leader because seeking truth and serving followers is inherent to Transformational Servant Leadership.

Imbenzi, Page, and Williaume (2017) state, &#8220;Transformational Servant Leadership[&#8230;] incorporate[s] influence, vision, respect or credibility, risk-sharing or delegation, integrity and modeling&#8221; (p. 17). To achieve these qualities of Transformational Servant Leadership, establishing personal credibility and trusting relationships with followers is needed. This can be established through evidence-based decision making. Incorporating influence, vision, respect, delegation, integrity, and modeling cannot be done without the followers&#8217; trust in a leader&#8217;s capabilities to make good decisions. Good decisions must be based on evidence and therefore research. Without good research, decisions made could harm the overall organization and team. For example, purchasing a building in a community that does not fit the organizations&#8217; market, or not establishing a good emergency preparedness plan for one&#8217;s team could be detrimental to an organization. Good decisions based on evidence could improve and protect an organization as they should, and ultimately, establish followers&#8217; respect and trust in their leader.

Possessing the skills to decipher how to find, read, and utilize research is evidently &#8211; pun intended &#8211; useful, but knowing how to conduct research within or outside one&#8217;s organization is also important for making sound decisions. Focusing on research within an organization, action research projects could improve the processes of an organization while aligning with the values of Transformational Servant Leadership. Both the transformational and servant aspects of this leadership style emphasize the importance of caring for followers. While servant leaders focus on serving followers and transformational leaders care focus on followers&#8217; engagement and support of organizational objects, both aspects need to understand their followers. If Tranformational Servant Leaders are capable of conducting evidence-based research through small action-research projects, logic-based changes and decisions can be made to improve the organization.

<strong>References</strong>

Imbenzi, G., Page, D., Williaume, D. (2017). <em>Monograph 2: Transformation servant leadership</em>. Retrieved from http://www.twu.ca/lead