---
ID: 3512
post_title: Unit 7 – LA2 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'Melchar, D. E., &amp; Bosco, S. M. (2010). Achieving high organization performance through servant leadership.&nbsp;The Journal of Business Inquiry. 9(1), 74-88. What was the purpose of the study? Melchar &amp; Bosco (2010, p.74) define their study as &ldquo;an investigation into whether a servant leader can develop a corporate&nbsp;culture that attracts or develops other servant leaders.&rdquo;&nbsp; &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/17/unit-7-la2-bp1-2/">Continue reading <span>Unit 7 &ndash; LA2 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/17/unit-7-la2-bp1-2/
published: true
post_date: 2018-02-16 21:55:35
---
Melchar, D. E., &amp; Bosco, S. M. (2010). Achieving high organization performance through servant leadership. <em>The Journal of Business Inquiry. 9</em>(1), 74-88.

<strong>What was the purpose of the study?</strong>

Melchar &amp; Bosco (2010, p.74) define their study as &#8220;an investigation into whether a servant leader can develop a corporate culture that attracts or develops other servant leaders.&#8221;  Their main argument is if this can be achieved with the three large for-profit cooperations analyzed in this study then the model of servant leadership should be adopted by other cooperations and firms.

<strong>Is there a rationale provided for needing a mixed methods design?</strong>

Melchar &amp; Bosco (2010) claim that although for example, Hamilton (as cited in Melchar &amp; Bosco, 2010) has identified positive outcomes of servant leadership that there until now has been no empirical evidence to support the assumptions presented. Furthermore, they claim there has been a lack of an instrument to measure servant leadership until now accurately. Their primary ambition of the research I believe is to use Barbuto &amp; Wheeler&#8217;s (as cited in Melchar &amp; Bosco, 2010) servant leadership questionnaire to produce quantitative data. Their use of qualitative data gathering is to identify leading themes based on senior leaders servant leadership orientation. Overall, the rationale for these choices is limited.

<strong>Is the choice of the mixed methods design appropriate and justified?</strong>

With a response rate of just 27 percent to their servant leadership questionnaire (Melchar&amp; Bosco, 2010, p.81) it is difficult to draw firm conclusions from their quantitative data. The aim was to use the qualitative data gather of managers and supervisors first to ascertain whether or not they were demonstrating servant leadership characteristics. The survey was then sent out based on responses of the three managers interviewed. Although, potentially the idea behind the mixed method design is justified its execution doesn&#8217;t feel or appear comprehensive.

<strong>What were the results of the study?</strong>

Melchar &amp; Bosco (2010, p.84) summarise &#8220;our results support the contention that the modeling of servant leadership by strategic level managers can create an organizational culture in which servant leaders develop among lower-level managers.&#8221; Although correlation is evident considering the managerial version of the servant leadership questionnaire was left out of analysis due to an inadequate response, I struggle to see how they make this claim.

<strong>Does the use of mixed methods produce a good understanding of the study’s purpose?</strong>

Overall, in this example no I don&#8217;t believe the mixed methods approach enhances the studies purpose. I think the initial aim was to use the qualitative data to justify the quantitative data in a sequential study. However, as mentioned previously and acknowledged by the authors at the end, the sample size is too small.

<ul>
<li>What was the purpose of the study? (3)</li>
<li>Is there a rationale provided for needing a mixed methods design? (2)</li>
<li>Is the choice of the mixed methods design appropriate and justified? (1)</li>
<li>What were the results of the study? (1)</li>
<li>Does the use of mixed methods produce a good understanding of the study’s purpose? (1)</li>
</ul>

<strong>Overall Rating = 8</strong>

<strong>References</strong>

Melchar, D. E., &amp; Bosco, S. M. (2010). Achieving high organization performance through servant leadership. <em>The Journal of Business Inquiry. 9</em>(1), 74-88.

&nbsp;