---
ID: 2844
post_title: Unit 3 – LA1 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'Article Exploring the psychological attributes underpinning elite sports coaching. Authors Hodgson, L. Butt, J. &amp; Maynard, I. Source International Journal of Sports Science &amp; Coaching Introduction Hodgson, Butt, and Maynard (2017) conduct research analyzing the psychological attributes that contribute to successful elite sports coaching. This study is deemed necessary due to a perceived lack of &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/01/18/unit-3-la1-bp1/">Continue reading <span>Unit 3 &ndash; LA1 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/01/18/unit-3-la1-bp1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-01-18 04:14:29
---
<strong>Article</strong><br />
Exploring the psychological attributes underpinning elite sports coaching.

<strong>Authors</strong><br />
Hodgson, L. Butt, J. &amp; Maynard, I.

<strong>Source</strong><br />
International Journal of Sports Science &amp; Coaching

<strong>Introduction</strong><br />
Hodgson, Butt, and Maynard (2017) conduct research analyzing the psychological attributes that contribute to successful elite sports coaching. This study is deemed necessary due to a perceived lack of research for sports coaches in comparison to elite performers.

<strong>Methods</strong><br />
Hogdson et al. (2017) conduct this study using 12 elite sports coaching. 8 male, 4 female. They stipulate that the participants must have had at least 10 years of coaching experience and regularly work with national/international standard athletes. In-depth interviews were used to collect data. All participants were asked major open-ended questions with secondary questions used based on their initial answers. Questions split into three sections defined as background/demographics, psychological attributes, and finally coaching strategies. Data was then processed using inductive thematic analysis.

<strong>Results/Findings</strong><br />
Results showed a significant correlation in what coaches deemed as critical psychological attributes required for success at this level of coaching. Maintaining a positive mindset and emotional stability even when in high-pressure environments were identified psychological themes. The other significant finding considered the influence of attribute development. The important practices of participating in coach education, gaining practical experience and practicing self-improvement techniques. The results albeit early research in this field certainly enhances the argument that coaches are &#8216;performers in their own right.&#8217; Thelwell et al. &amp; Olusoga et al. (as cited in Hodgson et al., 2017).

<strong>Conclusions</strong><br />
The study concludes that the lack of research in this topic area is a problem. The findings suggest the need for education to help coaches deal with the complex psychological challenges that arise in elite sports coaching. For coach education to be useful and impactful, however, requires relevant syllabus and curriculum to be underpinned by quality research material which currently doesn&#8217;t exist in enough quantity. It appears that elite sports coaches up to now have leaned heavily on personal experience, mentorship, and ambition to get to the top of their profession. Although all valuable learning behaviors I would suggest based on the findings of this paper that ensuring sports can continue to produce coaching talent will require compiling these learning behaviors into marketable resources.

<strong>Personal Comments</strong><br />
I believe the article gives a thorough overview of current research trends in psychology and sports coaching. A new parallel I noticed was that elite coaches are calling for further education to enhance their professional development opportunities. Interestingly my current research proposal and ideas focus on the opposite. I am seeking to glean knowledge from elite sports coaching principles for education. The higher-order themes identified in the study crossover appropriately with professional development of both students and staff within an educational setting. Attitude, confidence, resilience, focus and drive for personal development are all attributes necessary for effective teaching and good pedagogical practice. This makes the research valuable moving forward in my literature collection process.

<strong>References</strong>

Hodgson, L., Butt, J., Maynard, I. (2017) Exploring the psychological attributes underpinning elite sports coaching. International Journal of Sports Science &amp; Coaching. 12(4), 439-451.

<strong><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-3-learning-activities/">Assignment Page Link</a></strong>