---
ID: 3032
post_title: LDRS 591 Activity 4.5
author: Simarjit
post_excerpt: 'Unit 4 Learning Activities The most important things for me in the introduction section of a good quality research &hellip;. &nbsp; The introduction to a research article is a window into the whole article. For me the things that are important in an introduction are: Relevance of the topic to me- personally or professionally.&nbsp;This&nbsp; is [&hellip;]'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/icandothis/2018/01/27/ldrs-591-activity-4-5/
published: true
post_date: 2018-01-27 08:32:10
---
<blockquote class="wp-embedded-content" data-secret="b7ETzsWwNn"><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-4-learning-activities/">Unit 4 Learning Activities</a></p></blockquote>



<iframe class="wp-embedded-content" sandbox="allow-scripts" security="restricted" src="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-4-learning-activities/embed/#?secret=b7ETzsWwNn" data-secret="b7ETzsWwNn" width="600" height="338" title="&#8220;Unit 4 Learning Activities&#8221; &#8212; Leadership 591: Scholarly Inquiry" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

<strong>The most important things for me in the introduction section of a good quality research</strong> &#8230;.

&nbsp;

The introduction to a research article is a window into the whole article. For me the things that are important in an introduction are:

<strong>Relevance of the topic to me- personally or professionally.</strong> This  is obviously the primary driver behind a reader deciding to pick up a research article to read. I usually am able to make this decision quickly, based on the topic/title and the source. I always believed this was a more or less intuitive decision- that one decides to read an article that is of personal or professional interest.  Plano-Clark and Creswell (2015) make a very poignant argument as to why should one read research reports- as per them  that reading research reports adds to one&#8217;s personal knowledge, helps one understand their position in policy debates and helps improve one&#8217;s practice. I learnt that there is a set of questions that one can ask themselves, that can help making that determination more scientific.

<strong>Why is this research needed ?</strong> A research needs to be meaningful, not frivolous . It is important for me to determine how the study will contribute/ add to the available literature . &#8220;Research should only be conducted when researchers can make a convincing argument that the study is worth the effort&#8221; (Plano-Clark &amp; Creswell, 2015, p. 80).

<strong>Comparison to previous similar studies and what was missing in them</strong>&#8211; which includes a thorough literature review with mention of the things that were missing in those studies and the present  study attempts to discuss . As per Plano-Clark and Creswell (2015) &#8221; a good use of literature occurs when researchers provide a comprehensive summary of the literature on a topic and identify two to three explicit deficiencies in that literature (p. 120)

<strong>What are the applications of the study, its implications ?</strong> Plano-Clark and Creswell address this on p. 90, by identifying the audience for a study one can learn who may benefit from the study results.  I dont think this is a determination that is the researchers&#8217; to make. In my opinion this a individual decision, and one can usually make that determination from the title. What really matters to me while reading the introduction is the applicability of the study, especially the practical implications of the study.

Another important component of a well written introduction is how the authors plan to use the existing knowledge about a topic to formulate a framework for their study, how did they create the tools/methods that they plan to use in their research? What is the rationale behind their use of those methods, and whether there research supporting/validating those methods?

These components have helped me so far in making a determination as to why a study is important to me. Reading the pertinent sections of the above textbook has given me additional tools to help make that determination in a more informed manner.

<strong>Question:</strong> Do you think the audience of a research study should be determined by the authors?

Reference

Plano-Clark, V., Creswell, J. (2015). Understanding research: A consumer’s guide. (2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson.