---
ID: 3740
post_title: Unit 10 – LA2 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'Why I think evidence-based decision making is important for the Transformational Servant leader. Northouse (2016, p.176) states &ldquo;transformational leaders are out front in interpreting and shaping for organizations the shared meanings that exist within them.&rdquo; Using evidence-based decision making I believe can be part of that process. Being able to efficiently and comprehensively interpret information &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/03/06/unit-10-la2-bp1/">Continue reading <span>Unit 10 &ndash; LA2 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/03/06/unit-10-la2-bp1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-03-05 14:44:21
---
<strong>Why I think evidence-based decision making is important for the Transformational Servant leader.</strong>

Northouse (2016, p.176) states &#8220;transformational leaders are out front in interpreting and shaping for organizations the shared meanings that exist within them.&#8221; Using evidence-based decision making I believe can be part of that process. Being able to efficiently and comprehensively interpret information to inform decisions models good leadership practice which in turn demonstrates a critical transformational leadership principle, modeling the way. (Kouzes &amp; Posner, as cited in Northouse, 2016).

Creating a culture of evidence-based decision making in your workplace should also naturally develop empowerment of colleagues to share ideas and information professionally and comprehensively. Imagine continually questioning best practice and evaluating as a team current research to ensure your organization remains at the front of your field. Creating an ethos of such practice would evidence three further transformational leadership principles; Inspiring a shared vision, challenging the process, and enabling others to acts. (Kouzes &amp; Posner, as cited in Northouse, 2016).

The final significant outcome of evidence-based decision making as a leadership tool is the fact it can help ensure decisions are made ethically. Northouse (2016, p.235) defines this as &#8220;doing the right thing in the right way.&#8221; We are all going to make mistakes on our leadership journeys using evidence-based decision making helps choices be taken collectively instead of individually. This leads to higher accountability and less risk of unethical or poor behavioral decisions. Avoiding both is essential to modeling transformational and servant leadership effectively.

<strong>References</strong>

Northouse, P. G. (2016). <em>Leadership – </em>theory<em> and practice</em> – seventh edition. Los Angeles: Sage.

&nbsp;

<a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-10-learning-activities/">Learning Activity Link</a>