---
ID: 3226
post_title: Unit 5 – LA1 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'Cerit, Y. (2009). The effects of servant leadership behaviours of school principals on teachers&rsquo; job satisfaction.&nbsp;Educational Management Administration and Leadership, 37(5), 600-623. &nbsp; What quantitative research design is used and is it justified? Cerit (2009) uses a 68 item questionnaire to collect data to measure both servant leadership exhibited and also job satisfaction. The survey &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/02/unit-5-la1-bp1-2/">Continue reading <span>Unit 5 &ndash; LA1 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/02/unit-5-la1-bp1-2/
published: true
post_date: 2018-02-02 06:10:02
---
Cerit, Y. (2009). The effects of servant leadership behaviours of school principals on teachers’ job satisfaction. <em>Educational Management Administration and Leadership, 37</em>(5), 600-623.

&nbsp;

<strong>What quantitative research design is used and is it justified?</strong>

Cerit (2009) uses a 68 item questionnaire to collect data to measure both servant leadership exhibited and also job satisfaction. The survey consisted of Likert scale ranging throughout, and SPSS was used for data analysis. I&#8217;m struggling to fully identify whether the research is either experiment based or survey designed. However, when using such a large sample of data collection (595 teachers), survey-based would seem an appropriate method.

<strong>Are good quantitative procedures used to select and assign participants?</strong>

Although the research design is particular to a district within Turkey, the author has specified this and made appropriate accommodation to ensure suitable participants. This is evidenced by the use of 29 schools, proper gender split, and range of teaching experience used.

<strong>Are good quantitative data collection procedures used?</strong>

Yes, using survey-based questions and the Likert scale are both recognized quantitative data collection procedures. However, I was surprised that out of the 68 questions only 8 were used to measure teacher&#8217;s job satisfaction, and 60 were used to measure servant leadership. I am unsure of why there is such a disparity.

<strong>Does the quantitative research design address the study’s purpose?</strong>

To collect the range of data required to provide enough evidence to adequately study the impact of the effects of servant leadership on job satisfaction would undoubtedly need the large sample size used here. The research design, discussion, and conclusions mention numerous times about the niche nature of this study with one district in Turkey being sampled, and also critical differences found in the Turkish education system. I found the studies purpose presented with good clarity.

<ul>
<li>What quantitative research design is used and is it justified? (3)</li>
<li>Are good quantitative procedures used to select and assign participants? (3)</li>
<li>Are good quantitative data collection procedures used? (2)</li>
<li>Does the quantitative research design address the study’s purpose? (3)</li>
</ul>

<strong>Overall Score = 11</strong>

<strong>References</strong>

Cerit, Y. (2009). The effects of servant leadership behaviours of school principals on teachers’ job satisfaction. <em>Educational Management Administration and Leadership, 37</em>(5), 600-623.

<strong><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-5-learning-activities/">Learning Activity Link</a></strong>

&nbsp;