---
ID: 3321
post_title: Unit 5 – LA3 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'Cerit, Y. (2009). The effects of servant leadership behaviours of school principals on teachers&rsquo; job satisfaction.&nbsp;Educational Management Administration and Leadership, 37(5), 600-623. Were descriptive analyses reported? Descriptive analyses were evident with the use of tables. Means, correlations among variables, and regression analysis were demonstrated both for servant leadership analysis as well as job satisfaction surveys. &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/05/unit-5-la3-bp1/">Continue reading <span>Unit 5 &ndash; LA3 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/05/unit-5-la3-bp1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-02-04 23:10:43
---
Cerit, Y. (2009). The effects of servant leadership behaviours of school principals on teachers’ job satisfaction. <em>Educational Management Administration and Leadership, 37</em>(5), 600-623.

<strong>Were descriptive analyses reported?</strong>

Descriptive analyses were evident with the use of tables. Means, correlations among variables, and regression analysis were demonstrated both for servant leadership analysis as well as job satisfaction surveys.

<strong>What inferential statistics were used? (e.g., correlations, regression analysis, ANOVA, t-test)</strong>

Statistical Package of the Social Sciences (SPSS) was used to conduct the data analysis. Mean and Standard deviation values, correlation analysis, and standardized regression coefficients, and t-test results were also evident. (Cerit, 2009, p.611-612)

<strong>What were the results? (What was found?)</strong>

Cerit (2009, p.611) states that &#8220;The results of the correlation analysis revealed a positive and significant relationship between extrinsic job satisfaction of teachers and factors of servant leadership.&#8221; The essential behaviors/outcomes teachers valued most from their principals about servant leadership included:

Valuing<br />
Developing<br />
Building Community<br />
Displaying Authenticity<br />
Providing Leadership<br />
Sharing Leadership

The results were comprehensive and certainly add value to the argument for similar studies in other geographical areas.

<strong>Did the analysis represent a good quantitative process?</strong>

The analysis was undoubtedly comprehensive and demonstrated the use of a variety of recognized analysis techniques to draw its conclusions.

<ul>
<li>Were descriptive analyses reported? (3)</li>
<li>What inferential statistics were used? (e.g., correlations, regression analysis, ANOVA, t-test) (3)</li>
<li>What were the results? (What was found?) (3)</li>
<li>Did the analysis represent a good quantitative process? (3)</li>
</ul>

<strong>Overall Score = 12</strong>

<strong>References</strong>

Cerit, Y. (2009). The effects of servant leadership behaviours of school principals on teachers’ job satisfaction. <em>Educational Management Administration and Leadership, 37</em>(5), 600-623.

<a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-5-learning-activities/">Learning Activity Link</a>