---
ID: 3738
post_title: Unit 10 – LA3 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'How can I know that I can trust what I am reading? You can&rsquo;t! As Goldacre (2011) states &ldquo;our beliefs and expectations can be easily manipulated.&rdquo; We live in a time of #FAKENEWS rhetoric and a massive increase in skepticism of the news sources and social media we consume every day. Ultimately, we place faith &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/03/06/unit-10-la3-bp1/">Continue reading <span>Unit 10 &ndash; LA3 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/03/06/unit-10-la3-bp1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-03-05 14:44:53
---
<strong>How can I know that I can trust what I am reading?</strong><br />
You can&#8217;t! As Goldacre (2011) states &#8220;our beliefs and expectations can be easily manipulated.&#8221; We live in a time of #FAKENEWS rhetoric and a massive increase in skepticism of the news sources and social media we consume every day. Ultimately, we place faith and trust in sources of information we see as true based on our personal experiences and filtering system. As Goldacre (2011) also presented &#8220;industry-funded trials are four times more likely to have flattering results.&#8221; This is a medical example. However, the lessons are similar. Google, Facebook, Twitter, etc. know your political views, religious beliefs, even your shopping habits! We are all presented on a daily basis with a bias based upon our search histories. Thankfully the process of peer-reviewed research, albeit not perfect has a system of filtering in place that increases credibility.

<strong>How do I know the research has been performed competently?</strong><br />
Firstly, check the source. Is the research in a credible publication? Does the author have authority in their field? Then analyze the research process of the article and ensure its credibility. Having read and interpreted a lot of articles during this course, it usually doesn&#8217;t take too long to spot a poorly written article compared to a high-quality publication.

<strong>How do I know the research is reported honestly?</strong><br />
Running a simple google search on the author can unveil a lot of vital information and warning signs of bias or hidden agenda. Ensure the author is credible, and then analyze and evaluate the methodology behind the research. Finally, look for whether the author can spot flaws in their research in the conclusion.

<strong>How do I know the findings presented are consistent with what other researchers would conclude?</strong><br />
The only way to do that is to develop a comprehensive working knowledge of the topic you are trying to study. Undertaking literature searches and reviewing different research articles and topics will start to reveal what you can expect to see in discussion and conclusion sections.

<strong>Discussion Question</strong>

How do you evaluate an articles honesty if it hasn&#8217;t been through a peer review process?

<strong>References</strong>

Goldacre, B. [TED]. (2011, September, 29). <em>Bed Goldacre: </em>battling<em> bad science. </em>[Video File]. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h4MhbkWJzKk

<a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-10-learning-activities/">Learning Activity Link</a>