---
ID: 3588
post_title: Unit 8 – LA1 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'Think about some practical problems that you have faced in your professional life that you would like to change. In a new blog post list three problems that matter to you and that you think you can systematically address in your work situation.&nbsp; The first issue I have encountered on numerous occasions in my relatively &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/22/unit-8-la1-bp1-2/">Continue reading <span>Unit 8 &ndash; LA1 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/22/unit-8-la1-bp1-2/
published: true
post_date: 2018-02-21 19:56:30
---
<strong>Think about some practical problems that you have faced in your professional life that you would like to change. In a new blog post list three problems that matter to you and that you think you can systematically address in your work situation. </strong>

The first issue I have encountered on numerous occasions in my relatively short career in various contexts is how to implement technology effectively into the classroom and school infrastructures. I have witnessed vast amounts of money wasted because trends have been followed without sufficient planning or long-term thinking. Ensuring suitable devices are in the hands of qualified teachers and relevant classroom settings can be immensely powerful, however, without proper leadership technology implementation can be incredibly wasteful.

The second issue I would like to highlight is the participation of girls in physical education and athletics. I have had the pleasure of working on various projects in the United Kingdom to try and understand the barriers and hurdles girls face to participate in sport. Creating opportunities in a variety of new sports or traditionally male dominant sports has built a real revival of participation from girls in the U.K. As head of the PE department I used various tactics to try and tackle this problem including reward-based incentives, student&#8217;s voice, external coaches in niche activities. Although I gathered data that demonstrated short-term reward I have always been interested in how long-term participation can be achieved.

The third and final issue I would like to address is professional development within school contexts. I have had many positive and many negative experiences with this in a variety of schools. Two things I feel will always disengage or frustrate teachers is either wasting time or not valuing us as professionals. Often external professional development providers just talk to us and don&#8217;t engage us in meaningful conversation or activities. Ensuring meeting time is purposeful and meaningful is always a tough ask but it is a critical skill to provide a confident and motivated staff.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;