---
ID: 3054
post_title: Unit 4 – LA4 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'Sendjaya, S &amp; Sarros J. C. (2002). Servant leadership: its origin, development, and application in&nbsp;organizations.&nbsp;Journal of Leadership and Organization Studies,&nbsp;9(2), 57-64. The main purpose specified by the study above is to help develop an understanding of the history of servant leadership and to argue for further empirical research to be completed. While the purpose is &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/01/28/unit-4-la4-bp1/">Continue reading <span>Unit 4 &ndash; LA4 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/01/28/unit-4-la4-bp1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-01-27 17:15:32
---
Sendjaya, S &amp; Sarros J. C. (2002). Servant leadership: its origin, development, and application in organizations. <em>Journal of Leadership and Organization Studies,</em> 9(2), 57-64.

The main purpose specified by the study above is to help develop an understanding of the history of servant leadership and to argue for further empirical research to be completed. While the purpose is clear, the focus sometimes appears somewhat disjointed. The link between demonstrating the history of servant leadership namely with case study examples of Jesus Christ and Greenleaf I don&#8217;t feel are then used to enhance the argument for further research effectively.

There are no formal participants in this study and it is based mainly on a literature review. As mentioned in my previous post there is a lot of literature used in this article. However, it is not as thoroughly analyzed as one might expect for a paper arguing for further research. The article clearly has three sections demonstrating the origin, development, and application in organizations of servant leadership.  I would argue, however, that each of these sections could be an article in itself. To merge together three very different purposes in the paper has left it feeling confusing at times.

Having reflected on this paper a lot this week. At times I have felt overly critical. I have had to remind myself that this paper is over 15 years old now and that research into servant leadership as a model has increased significantly which is perhaps why my expectation is unrealistically high. In truth, the paper does achieve what it states. To enhance the profile of servant leadership and to help achieve further empirical research which now exists.

<ul>
<li>Is the study’s purpose clearly specified? (3)</li>
<li>Is the focus of the study appropriate? (2)</li>
<li>Is the overall intent of the study appropriate? (2)</li>
<li>Are the participants and the sites appropriate? (2)</li>
<li>Is the purpose of the study narrowed through appropriate research questions and/or hypotheses? (1)</li>
<li>Does the purpose of the study follow logically from the statement of the problem and the literature review? (1)</li>
<li>Is the purpose consistent with the study’s overall approach? (2)</li>
</ul>

Overall Score &#8211; 13 &#8211;  Adequate Quality

<strong>References</strong>

Sendjaya, S &amp; Sarros J. C. (2002). Servant leadership: its origin, development, and application in organizations. <em>Journal of Leadership and Organization Studies,</em> 9(2), 57-64.

<a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-4-learning-activities/">Learning Activity Link</a>