---
ID: 3314
post_title: LDRS 591 Activity 6.1
author: Simarjit
post_excerpt: 'LDRS 591 Activity 6.1 Unit 6 Learning Activities Carter, D., &amp; Baghurst, T. (2014). The influence of servant leadership on restaurant employee engagement. Journal of Business Ethics, 124, 453-464. &nbsp; The authors labelled the study a &lsquo;phenomenological design&rsquo;, which I was not able to find reference too in our text. I think this study is [&hellip;]'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/icandothis/2018/02/04/ldrs-591-activity-6-1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-02-04 21:41:51
---
LDRS 591 Activity 6.1

<blockquote class="wp-embedded-content" data-secret="j4UlrAT4xe"><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-6-learning-activities/">Unit 6 Learning Activities</a></p></blockquote>



<iframe class="wp-embedded-content" sandbox="allow-scripts" security="restricted" src="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-6-learning-activities/embed/#?secret=j4UlrAT4xe" data-secret="j4UlrAT4xe" width="600" height="338" title="&#8220;Unit 6 Learning Activities&#8221; &#8212; Leadership 591: Scholarly Inquiry" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

Carter, D., &amp; Baghurst, T. (2014). The influence of servant leadership on restaurant employee engagement. J<em>ournal of Business Ethics, 124,</em> 453-464.

&nbsp;

The authors labelled the study a &#8216;phenomenological design&#8217;, which I was not able to find reference too in our text. I think this study is an example of a case-study research design. The authors studies servant leadership in a bounded system, in this case the employees of a restaurant.

As per the criteria cited by Plano-Clark &amp; Creswell (2015, p. 301) for evaluating te research design in a qualitative research report:

<strong>Did the research design guide the conduct of the qualitative study? </strong>

The researchers intended to study the relationship between servant leadership and employee engagement. They divided the participants into  2 focus groups, and these groups were interviewed by an experienced interviewer, along with observation. The researchers seem to be knowledgeable about the design and cited their literature review. Score 3.

<strong>Was the choice of research design appropriate and justified?</strong>

The choice of research design seems to be appropriate, given that they sought to study the impact of servant leadership from the employees&#8217; perspective. Score 3.

<strong>Were good quality data collection procedures used?</strong>

They conducted focus groups . They also collected data by other sources and then triangulated the results. Other than the focus groups, they used internal surveys from the past 2 years; they also conducted a 2 hour observation starting 30 minutes before the focus group where they studies interactions amongst employees and with customers. Date from all these sources were triangulated. Score 3.

<strong>Were good quality data analysis procedures used?</strong>

I will defer this till I learn more in the following chapters.

<strong>Were good quality results and interpretations reported?</strong>

They mention that 5 themes emerged during their data analysis. I hope we will learn more about this in the next chapters.

<strong>Did the study use a rigorous research design? </strong>

The study flows in a coherent, easy to follow pattern. The abstract however was not arranged in the format that one expects from a peer reviewed journal article publication. Score 2

<strong>Did the use of qualitative research design address the study&#8217;s purpose? </strong>

This research design was appropriate to help identify the relationship between servant leadership and employee engagement and commitment. It adopted the key elements of a case study research as mentioned by PLano-Clark and Creswell (2015, p. 293)- the research problem called for in-depth exploration; researcher collected multiple forms of data; the researcher analysed data for description and themes; findings included description, themes and lessons learned. Score 3

Totals core 14/15

&nbsp;

Reference

Plano-Clark, V., Creswell, J. (2015).<em> Understanding research: A consumer’s guide.</em> (2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson.