---
ID: 3744
post_title: LDRS591, Unit 10, Activity 10.3
author: Leona So
post_excerpt: 'How can I know that I can trust what I am reading? There are a number of considerations I can take to gage the reliability of what I am reading which includes the scholarly review process of the article, the author&rsquo;s reputation, and its source of funding. When we consider the author&rsquo;s reputation, we need &hellip; <p><a href="https://create.twu.ca/soleona/2018/03/06/ldrs591-unit-10-activity-10-3/">Continue reading<span> "LDRS591, Unit 10, Activity 10.3"</span></a></p>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/soleona/2018/03/06/ldrs591-unit-10-activity-10-3/
published: true
post_date: 2018-03-06 00:21:30
---
<strong>How can I know that I can trust what I am reading?</strong>

There are a number of considerations I can take to gage the reliability of what I am reading which includes the scholarly review process of the article, the author&#8217;s reputation, and its source of funding. When we consider the author&#8217;s reputation, we need to consider the authority of the author. This goes beyond the author&#8217;s credentials, and into looking the author&#8217;s association and time in the field and past credibility with his/her research. The source of funding is also important to consider as readers need to consider biases of the research due to who their study is being funded by. Goldacre (2011) gives the example of pharmaceutical companies &#8220;proving&#8221; the effectiveness of their drugs by purposefully skewing their research process.

<strong>How do I know the research has been performed competently?</strong>

To evaluate to competency of the research, readers can evaluate the technical procedures. Assuring the sampling is well represented, there control groups, that biases have been considered, and the processes in data collection and evaluation were intentionally minimized. Utilizing Plano-Clark and Creswell&#8217;s (2015) evaluation criteria is a great way of judging the research&#8217;s reliability.

<strong>How do I know the research is reported honestly?</strong>

Goldacre (2011) shares the best way of understanding whether research is reported honestly is &#8220;to lift up the lid, fingering around at the mechanics, and peer in&#8221; (&#8220;Battling bad science&#8221;). Goldcare (2011) further suggests this is achievable by considering the author&#8217;s authority and completeness and validity of the data collected. Considering the author&#8217;s intentions and whether all data is present is crucial to accuracy. If the author is biased due to personal or organizational gain, or if there are missing data about trials, the conclusion of the study is incomplete and therefore inaccurate.

<strong>How do I know the findings presented are consistent with what other researchers would conclude?</strong>

Seeking research of replicated studies is a good method of finding out whether the findings of a study are consistent with other literature. If other researchers are unable to replicate the study and the findings, then the findings are inconsistent and suggests to inaccurate.

<strong>My question:</strong> As noted, consistent findings between replicated studies is a good indication of the study&#8217;s accuracy. What I noticed for relatively &#8220;new&#8221; research topics, there are few studies to compare with one another to gage the accuracy of the findings. How would you suggest evaluating the credibility of a study&#8217;s finding if there is little literature about a topic to compare the findings to?

<strong>References</strong>

Goldacre, B. (2011). Battling bad science. TED. Retrieved from https://www.ted.com/talks/ben_goldacre_battling_bad_science/up-next#t-834098

Plano-Clark, V., &amp; Creswell, J. (2015). <em>Understanding research: A consumer’s guide</em> (2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson.