---
ID: 3066
post_title: Unit 4 – LA5 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'As a consumer of research reports, the most important thing(s) for me in the introduction section of a high-quality research report is/are . . . I&rsquo;m not a natural reader. I enjoy writing a lot more. So I think one of the critically&nbsp;important things for me when reading an introduction is its conciseness. To get &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/01/28/unit-4-la5-bp1/">Continue reading <span>Unit 4 &ndash; LA5 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/01/28/unit-4-la5-bp1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-01-27 22:57:53
---
<strong>As a consumer of research reports, the most important thing(s) for me in the introduction section of a high-quality research report is/are . . .</strong>

I&#8217;m not a natural reader. I enjoy writing a lot more. So I think one of the critically important things for me when reading an introduction is its conciseness. To get out my highlighter and study and work my way through the &#8216;heavier&#8217; parts of the report means the opening has to have caught my imagination and linked in relevance to either my assignment or personal reading interests.

The second important thing I value is immediately recognizing a reference name. If I am studying a topic that I already know reasonably well seeing a name I recognize in the introduction engages me in the article. If the name is also what I would consider a &#8220;big hitter&#8221; or someone I know is internationally recognized as a subject leader then even better. It demonstrates to me straight away that the article author has background knowledge of the topic.

The final thing I look for is being able to understand the rationale of the paper and identify the hypothesis. I often ask myself what is this article going to teach me? Is it current? Why has it been written? If I can find the answer to those questions in the introduction, then I will continue. If not, I will often stop reading an article. It is also important to me when reading that throughout the piece, references are made back to the original hypothesis. I find this useful to maintain purpose and direction throughout reading beyond the introduction.

<strong>Discussion Question</strong>

How often do you read a full introduction when searching for literature? (I ask because I often stop at the title/abstract).

<a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-4-learning-activities/">Learning Activity Link</a>