---
ID: 2940
post_title: LDRS 591 Activity 4.2
author: Simarjit
post_excerpt: 'Unit 4 Learning Activities LDRS 591 Activity 4.2 . Statements of the problem. &nbsp; Article for review: Hunter, E.M., Neubert, M. J., Perry. S.J. , Witt, L.A., Penny, L.M., &amp; Weinberger, E. (2013). Servant leaders inspire servant followers: Antecedents and outcomes for employees and the organization. Leadership Quarterly, 24(2), 316-331. &nbsp; Is the topic interesting? [&hellip;]'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/icandothis/2018/01/22/ldrs-591-activity-4-2/
published: true
post_date: 2018-01-22 21:43:38
---
<blockquote class="wp-embedded-content" data-secret="nnBODM981C"><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-4-learning-activities/">Unit 4 Learning Activities</a></p></blockquote>



<iframe class="wp-embedded-content" sandbox="allow-scripts" security="restricted" src="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-4-learning-activities/embed/#?secret=nnBODM981C" data-secret="nnBODM981C" width="600" height="338" title="&#8220;Unit 4 Learning Activities&#8221; &#8212; Leadership 591: Scholarly Inquiry" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

LDRS 591 Activity 4.2 . Statements of the problem.

&nbsp;

Article for review: Hunter, E.M., Neubert, M. J., Perry. S.J. , Witt, L.A., Penny, L.M., &amp; Weinberger, E. (2013). Servant leaders inspire servant followers: Antecedents and outcomes for employees and the organization. <em>Leadership Quarterly, 24(2)</em>, 316-331.

&nbsp;

<strong>Is the topic interesting?</strong> The topic is servant leadership, and hence it is of interest to me as a student of leadership.  I would rate it a<strong> 3</strong>.

<strong>Is there a meaningful problem?</strong> The research problem here is the application of servant leadership and a measure of its influence at the individual and group level. I would rate this study a <strong>2</strong> on this element. They did extensive literature review to identify deficiencies in literature on servant leadership and its target audience.  The reason I didn&#8217;t rate it a 3 was because their arguments about previous literature being deficient were not well organized.

<strong>Is the importance of the problem justified?</strong> The authors make a convincing argument for the necessity of the study by stating that the application of servant leadership had not been research in prior studies. I would rate this a <strong>2</strong>.

<strong>Are there deficiencies in the knowledge about the problem?</strong> They reviewed literature and were able to identify deficiencies in research on servant leadership. They claim this  study would help  &#8221; better understand the scope and magnitude of the influence that servant leadership has on a range of multilevel outcomes and the differential influences of servant leadership&#8221;, and &#8220;comprehensive explorations of antecedents and outcomes are necessary to help scholars and managers better understand how to best apply servant leadership and what benefits can be expected from an emphasis on this particular leadership style&#8221;. I would rate it <strong>3</strong> on this element.

<strong>Is an audience identified and are there specific examples of how the audience can use the missing knowledge?</strong> I was not able to identify a specific target audience that the authors intended this study to be directed at. I rate this element a <strong>1</strong>, since servant leadership as a topic could be applicable to a wide range of audiences, in a variety of fields.

<strong>Does the passage clearly argue that the study is warranted?</strong> Their proposals that &#8220;servant leaders initiate a cycle of service&#8221;, &#8220;testing a multi-source model of servant leadership&#8221;, and &#8220;examining leader personality as tool in understanding and selecting servant leaders&#8221;. This resonates with me particularly as I have had a hard time finding specific references towards the applicability of servant leadership in the individual as well as organizational context.  This would score a <strong>3</strong> .

<strong>Is the passage well written?</strong> I don&#8217;t think that the passage is well written. The information provided is not easy to follow and is not concise. It took me three readings of the introduction section only to get an idea of what the authors propose to study . I would give it a<strong> 1</strong> on this.

Overall score-<strong>15</strong> (Adequate quality)

&nbsp;