---
ID: 2484
post_title: Activity 1.3
author: Simarjit
post_excerpt: '&nbsp; Unit 1 Learning Activities Patton (2001) seems to be trying to influence the away from using the term &lsquo;best practice&rsquo;, instead urging them to focus on &lsquo;lessons learned&rsquo;. He also argues that when talking about &lsquo;best practices&rsquo; , it is important to know the context, as well as to be discerning as to who [&hellip;]'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/icandothis/2018/01/03/activity-1-3/
published: true
post_date: 2018-01-03 21:42:19
---
&nbsp;

<blockquote class="wp-embedded-content" data-secret="xu4pNWHFqI"><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-1-learning-activities/">Unit 1 Learning Activities</a></p></blockquote>



<iframe class="wp-embedded-content" sandbox="allow-scripts" security="restricted" src="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-1-learning-activities/embed/#?secret=xu4pNWHFqI" data-secret="xu4pNWHFqI" width="600" height="338" title="&#8220;Unit 1 Learning Activities&#8221; &#8212; Leadership 591: Scholarly Inquiry" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

Patton (2001) seems to be trying to influence the away from using the term &#8216;best practice&#8217;, instead urging them to focus on &#8216;lessons learned&#8217;. He also argues that when talking about &#8216;best practices&#8217; , it is important to know the context, as well as to be discerning as to who is taking about them using what criteria. He seems to be skeptical about the universal applicability of evidence based practice.

In the second article, evidence-based education is defined as &#8220;the integration of professional wisdom with the best available empirical evidence in making decisions about how to deliver instruction.&#8221; (Whitehurst, as cited by Trybus, 2007).  The author,Trybus (2007) is concerned that the emphasis on &#8216;evidence&#8217; risks converting teaching into a science rather than an art. She suggests balancing research with professional wisdom.

In the third article, the authors Walshe &amp; Rundall (2001) primarily talk about evidence based practice in health care.  As per them evidence based practice originated in the health care field, but has now &#8216; spread to fields outside healthcare, with the establishment of initiatives for evidence-based practice in social care, criminal justice, and education&#8217; (Davies, Nutley, andSmith1999; Boruch, Petrosino, and Chalmers 1999). They also raise the argument that if the health care providers are expected to adopt evidence based decision making, then why not health care management?

I believe the &#8216;evidence&#8217; these articles are referring to is what is supported by research studies. Being in health care we rely a lot on evidence to guide decision making. As Walshe and Rundall mention that prior to the widespread use of evidence based decision making, there was a lot of variability in the use of health care resources and also in decision making, leading to &#8216;underuse, &#8216;overuse&#8217;, or &#8216;abuse&#8217; of resources. I agree with use of research based best practices in the delivery of health care. But on the other hand, I also think that overreliability on evidence takes away the &#8216;art&#8217; from the practice of medicine, and even education. It risks leaving little room for innovation, individuality and creativity. I also agree with Walshe and Rundall in their argument that health care management ( and for that matter, management in other fields ) should also be held to the same standards of universality based on evidence that health care providers are held to .

I would like to close with a question- being in medicine I have been following evidence-based practice. Why has it not gained the same kind of applicability in the fields of education, social care, law and justice, and finance?

References

Boruch, R., A. Petrosino, and I. Chalmers. 1999. The Campbell Collaboration: A Proposal for Systematic, Multinational and Continuous Reviews of Evidence. London: School of Public Policy, University College London

Davies, H.T.O., S.M. Nutley, and P.C. Smith. 1999. What Works? The Role of Evidence in Public Sector Policy and Practice. Public Money and Management 19(1):3–5.

Patton, M. (2001). Evaluation, knowledge management, best practices and high quality lessons learned. American Journal of Evaluation, 22(3), 329-336.

Trybus, M. (2007). Understanding scientifically based research: A mandate or decision making tool? Delta Kappa Gamma Bulletin, 73(4), 5-8.

Walshe, K. &amp; Rundall, T.G. (2001). Evidence-based management: From theory to practice in health care. The Millbank Quarterly, 79(3), 429-457

Whitehurst. G. Evidence-based education (slide presentation), www.ed.gov/nclb/metliods/whatworks/eb/evidencebased.pdf. As cited in Trybus , M. (2007). <span style="float: none;background-color: transparent;color: #333333;cursor: text;font-family: 'Lato',Helvetica,sans-serif;font-size: 16px;font-style: normal;font-variant: normal;font-weight: 400;letter-spacing: normal;text-align: left;text-decoration: none;text-indent: 0px">Understanding scientifically based research: A mandate or decision making tool? Delta Kappa Gamma Bulletin, 73(4), 5-8.</span>