---
ID: 3238
post_title: Unit 5 – LA4 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'As a consumer of research reports, the most important thing(s) for me in the methods and results section of a high-quality quantitative research report is/are . . . Ensuring the method of the research links with the purpose is the first significant thing I look for in a report. Sample size, gender, and data collection &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/03/unit-5-la4-bp1/">Continue reading <span>Unit 5 &ndash; LA4 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/03/unit-5-la4-bp1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-02-02 19:31:32
---
<strong>As a consumer of research reports, the most important thing(s) for me in the methods and results section of a high-quality quantitative research report is/are . . .</strong>

Ensuring the method of the research links with the purpose is the first significant thing I look for in a report. Sample size, gender, and data collection all feed into assessing the strength of methodology and results. I also find it useful when the report specifies the rationale behind the choice of data collection. Whether this is face to face interviews, surveys, video interviews, observation, etc.

As a returner to research studies this academic year I also find it extremely helpful when the results section provides differentiation to allow all readers to access the information. Stronger articles I have seen provide this, and it has been encouraging to journey into the greater understanding of quantitative research articles the more you access them.

The final important thing I appreciate is the experience and relevance of the sample used. For example, last week when analyzing an article on coaching psychology. The fact that participants were elite level coaches validated the power of the argument in my mind. I find using extensive data collection or specifically targeted participants enhances any quantitative paper I have read. I would assume undertaking a project at that scale would require vast experience and relevant contacts. My appreciation of such research articles I think comes from sheer admiration of the work needed and demonstrated.

<strong>Discussion Question</strong>

What are some red flags shown in methodology that can lead to discounting the quality of a research paper?

<strong><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-5-learning-activities/">Learning Task Link</a></strong>