---
ID: 3650
post_title: LDRS 591 Activity 9.2
author: Simarjit
post_excerpt: 'LDRS 591 Activity 9.2 Unit 9 Learning Activities &nbsp; Article reviewed: Barbuto, J. E., Gottfredson, R. K., &amp; Searle, T. P. (2014). An examination of emotional intelligence as an antecedent of servant leadership. Journal of Leadership and Organizational Studies, 21(3), 315-323. &nbsp; Are the major results identified and summarized? The authors identified and summarized the [&hellip;]'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/icandothis/2018/02/28/ldrs-591-activity-9-2/
published: true
post_date: 2018-02-28 20:01:21
---
LDRS 591 Activity 9.2

<blockquote class="wp-embedded-content" data-secret="pbZBMh7sTV"><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-9-learning-activities/">Unit 9 Learning Activities</a></p></blockquote>



<iframe class="wp-embedded-content" sandbox="allow-scripts" security="restricted" src="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-9-learning-activities/embed/#?secret=pbZBMh7sTV" data-secret="pbZBMh7sTV" width="600" height="338" title="&#8220;Unit 9 Learning Activities&#8221; &#8212; Leadership 591: Scholarly Inquiry" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

&nbsp;

<span style="float: none;background-color: transparent;color: #606060;font-family: 'Open Sans',sans-serif;font-size: 16px;font-style: normal;font-variant: normal;font-weight: 400;letter-spacing: normal;text-align: left;text-decoration: none;text-indent: 0px">Article reviewed: Barbuto, J. E., Gottfredson, R. K., &amp; Searle, T. P. (2014). An examination of emotional intelligence as an antecedent of servant leadership. </span><em>Journal of Leadership and Organizational Studies, 21</em><span style="float: none;background-color: transparent;color: #606060;font-family: 'Open Sans',sans-serif;font-size: 16px;font-style: normal;font-variant: normal;font-weight: 400;letter-spacing: normal;text-align: left;text-decoration: none;text-indent: 0px">(3), 315-323.</span>

&nbsp;

<strong>Are the major results identified and summarized?</strong>

The authors identified and summarized the results very well. In their discussion they summarized in a simple easy to read manner, which i really appreciate, as compared to long-winded discussions of results in some other studies. Score 3.

<strong>Are the results related to the literature?</strong>

The authors attempted to correlate their results to previous literature, but they concluded that there wasn&#8217;t a robust literature studying the relationship between emotional intelligence and servant leadership, especially from the followers&#8217; perspective. Score 3.

<strong>Are appropriate implications of the results for practice identified and justified?</strong>

They identified the implications of their results , suggesting that for organizations that wished to adopt a servant leadership approach, emotional intelligence could be used in selection and development of such leaders. They admitted that one arm of the study (followers&#8217; perspective of relationship between leader&#8217;s emotional intelligence and servant leadership behavior) was contrary to their expectation. Score 3.

<strong>Is there a thoughtful critique of the study’s limitations?</strong>

The researchers identified that because the leaders were chosen from the civic fields, the results of this study could not be necessarily applied to private sector leaders. Another limitation they noted was that the follower samples size was 4-6 per leader, and the results might have been different if they had chosen more followers per leader. Score 3.

<strong>Are suitable suggestions for future research provided?</strong>

They authors suggested that future studies could be conducted with leaders from the private sector, and with a larger number of followers per leader. Score 3.

<strong>Are the interpretations consistent with the study&#8217;s results and limitations?</strong>

The conclusions are outlined succinctly and logically. Score 3.

<strong>Is the back matter appropriate?</strong>

The authors included references and authors&#8217; biographies. I was disappointed to note that there were no appendices. I was expecting them to append the tools/questionnaires they used for their data collection. Score 1.

Total score 19. High quality study.

Reference

Plano-Clark, V., &amp; Creswell, J. (2015). <em>Understanding research: A consumer’s guide</em> (2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson.