---
ID: 3355
post_title: LDRS 591 Activity 6.4
author: Simarjit
post_excerpt: 'LDSR 591 Activity 6.4 Unit 6 Learning Activities As a consumer of research reports the most important thing for me in the methods and results section of a high quality research report is participants and data collection. Participants: Once the researchers have identified the central phenomenon and research design, their choice of sample is very [&hellip;]'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/icandothis/2018/02/06/ldrs-591-activity-6-4/
published: true
post_date: 2018-02-06 21:41:37
---
LDSR 591 Activity 6.4

<blockquote class="wp-embedded-content" data-secret="KTFoB3dPJT"><a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-6-learning-activities/">Unit 6 Learning Activities</a></p></blockquote>



<iframe class="wp-embedded-content" sandbox="allow-scripts" security="restricted" src="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-6-learning-activities/embed/#?secret=KTFoB3dPJT" data-secret="KTFoB3dPJT" width="600" height="338" title="&#8220;Unit 6 Learning Activities&#8221; &#8212; Leadership 591: Scholarly Inquiry" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

As a consumer of research reports the most important thing for me in the methods and results section of a high quality research report is participants and data collection.

Participants: Once the researchers have identified the central phenomenon and research design, their choice of sample is very important. As per Plano-Clark and Creswell (2015, p. 332), the sample is composed of the site and the participants. Since a qualitative study is explorative, it is vital that the participants that are selected are those who can help the researchers explore the topic by providing unbiased and in-depth answers/ discussions as per the research design. The researcher more often than not applies purposeful sampling to enroll &#8220;information-rich&#8221; participants, whose meaningful responses to data collection will help the researchers explore their research topic. (Plano-Clark &amp; Creswell, 2015, p. 332). <span style="float: none;background-color: transparent;color: #333333;cursor: text;font-family: 'Lato',Helvetica,sans-serif;font-size: 16px;font-style: normal;font-variant: normal;font-weight: 400;letter-spacing: normal;text-align: left;text-decoration: none;text-indent: 0px">Before data are collected it is very important for me to know what enrolling procedures were employed by the researchers: whether participation in the study was truly voluntary or if it was obtained via the employer, were the participants assured confidentiality, whether compensation to employees was offered by employer or researchers and if it could potentially introduce bias, were ethical issues identified and addressed, what kind of ethical oversight was envisioned and/or applied.</span>

Data collection: In my view data are the most important element of any study. Methods of collection of data should be clearly outlined in the methods selection. The rationale for choosing the data collection methods and procedures should also be clear to the reader. The data should ideally be collected using multiple methods. It also helps the  reader understand the study better if the researchers mention the challenges that they came across during data collection, and any changes they had to make to the study as a result.

All the elements <span style="float: none;background-color: transparent;color: #333333;cursor: text;font-family: 'Lato',Helvetica,sans-serif;font-size: 16px;font-style: normal;font-variant: normal;font-weight: 400;letter-spacing: normal;text-align: left;text-decoration: none;text-indent: 0px"> in the methods and results section</span> of a research report are important.  Understandably, the primary interest of any reader is in finding out what the<span style="float: none;background-color: transparent;color: #333333;cursor: text;font-family: 'Lato',Helvetica,sans-serif;font-size: 16px;font-style: normal;font-variant: normal;font-weight: 400;letter-spacing: normal;text-align: left;text-decoration: none;text-indent: 0px"> results of the study are and how they are applicable to us. But for the results to be deemed useful and valid, they have to be backed by credible data collection and analysis. </span>As a consumer of research reports, I make a decision regarding the credibility of a study first and foremost based on the focus on selection of appropriate participants and rigorous data collection.

Question: I will admit that because of my limited knowledge of statistics, I usually skim over the data analysis section, and go straight to results and discussion. Is this bad scholarly practice?

After reading the chapter on data analysis I do feel slightly more confident in tackling it henceforth.

Reference

<span style="float: none;background-color: transparent;color: #333333;cursor: text;font-family: 'Lato',Helvetica,sans-serif;font-size: 16px;font-style: normal;font-variant: normal;font-weight: 400;letter-spacing: normal;text-align: left;text-decoration: none;text-indent: 0px">Plano-Clark, V., Creswell, J. (2015). <em>Understanding research: A consumer’s guide. (2nd ed.)</em>. Boston, MA: Pearson.</span>