---
ID: 3669
post_title: Unit 9 – LA2 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'Melchar, D. E., &amp; Bosco, S. M. (2010). Achieving high organization performance through servant leadership.&nbsp;The Journal of Business Inquiry. 9(1), 74-88. Are the major results identified and summarized? Melchar &amp; Bosco (2010) present their&nbsp;findings in a very succinct and organized way. They summarize what they have learned from the data collected. This demonstrates an indicator &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/03/02/unit-9-la2-bp1-2/">Continue reading <span>Unit 9 &ndash; LA2 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/03/02/unit-9-la2-bp1-2/
published: true
post_date: 2018-03-01 16:44:18
---
Melchar, D. E., &amp; Bosco, S. M. (2010). Achieving high organization performance through servant leadership. <em>The Journal of Business Inquiry. 9</em>(1), 74-88.

<strong>Are the major results identified and summarized?</strong>

Melchar &amp; Bosco (2010) present their findings in a very succinct and organized way. They summarize what they have learned from the data collected. This demonstrates an indicator of higher quality as outlined by Plano-Clark &amp; Creswell (2015).  However, at times the conclusion appears to make broad overgeneralizations and doesn&#8217;t necessarily link together the data with the summary comprehensively.

<strong>Are the results related to the literature?</strong>

Some reference is made to literature in the conclusions. However, it is somewhat sporadic with only three citations noted. When research is cited, it is justified and appropriate in the written context and helps enhance the conclusions. However, Plano-Clark &amp; Creswell (2015) indicate high-quality findings should &#8220;explicitly relate to prior research in terms of how they compare to, contrast with, or extend the prior research.&#8221;

<strong>Are appropriate implications of the results for practice identified and justified?</strong>

Melchar &amp; Bosco (2010) continually emphasize that their study is based on the automotive industry and continue to do so in their conclusions. For example, stating &#8220;the luxury automobile market requires a high level of commitment by all employees in order to be successful&#8221; (Melchar &amp; Bosco, 2010, p. 84). Due to their relatively low participation rate in the study, it could be argued that this research serves better specifically to the automotive industry instead of tackling organizations as a whole.

<strong>Is there a thoughtful critique of the study’s limitations?</strong>

Melchar &amp; Bosco (2010) identify weaknesses within their research. Only using one industry, low participation rates in the study are both examples outlined in their conclusion section. Interestingly some of the broader generalizations made in the discussion are not replicated in the conclusion which demonstrates a good understanding of their research.

<strong>Are suitable suggestions for future research provided?</strong>

Melchar &amp; Bosco (2010) present the argument for further empirical study for servant leadership. They also argue that more extensive studies should be completed in a broader range of profit and not for profit settings. Finally, they suggest further examination of the main components of servant leadership would be beneficial to research in this topic area.

<ul>
<li>Are the major results identified and summarized? (2)</li>
<li>Are the results related to the literature? (1)</li>
<li>Are appropriate implications of the results for practice identified and justified? (2)</li>
<li>Is there a thoughtful critique of the study’s limitations? (3)</li>
<li>Are suitable suggestions for future research provided?  (3)</li>
</ul>

<strong>Overall Rating = 11</strong>

<strong>References</strong>

Melchar, D. E., &amp; Bosco, S. M. (2010). Achieving high organization performance through servant leadership. <em>The Journal of Business Inquiry. 9</em>(1), 74-88.

Plano-Clark, V., &amp; Creswell, J. (2015). <em>Understanding research: A consumer’s guide</em> (2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson.