---
ID: 3376
post_title: Unit 6 – LA4 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'As a consumer of research reports, the most important thing(s) for me in the methods and results section of a high-quality qualitative research report is/are . . . Searching for evidence of triangulation is the first significant thing I look for when evaluating the method and results section of a qualitative research report. Seeing multiple &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/08/unit-6-la4-bp1/">Continue reading <span>Unit 6 &ndash; LA4 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/02/08/unit-6-la4-bp1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-02-08 05:08:20
---
<strong>As a consumer of research reports, the most important thing(s) for me in the methods and results section of a high-quality qualitative research report is/are . . .</strong>

Searching for evidence of triangulation is the first significant thing I look for when evaluating the method and results section of a qualitative research report. Seeing multiple sources of data gathered to try and evidence the research question I believe adds to a richer argument and removes the chance of bias or generic statements.

The second thing I look for links to my post from last week. Ensuring the research purpose has been considered and used as part of the planning process for the methodology. I would identify this as one of the weaknesses of my undergraduate thesis. Although I felt I had a good research question and purpose, I took shortcuts when it came to choosing participants and planning my data gathering. Ultimately this left my research without the evidence required to create a thesis of the highest quality.

Finally, I look at how replicable is the research method. Could I pick it up and conduct it in my context? This past week the article I analyzed although comprehensive and thorough in many aspects left me wondering whether I had enough information to be able to replicate the research accurately. To be able to follow the process and thought patterns of the author all the way through an article I find extremely valuable.

<strong>Discussion Question</strong>

How do you identify potential bias within a qualitative research paper&#8217;s results section?

<a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-6-learning-activities/">Learning Activity Link</a>