---
ID: 3673
post_title: Unit 9 – LA3 – BP1
author: mrwilliamsphysed
post_excerpt: 'The most important thing for me about the conclusions section of a high-quality research report is . . . The first thing I look for in a high-quality conclusion in a research report is whether the claims being made are realistic. I often wonder sometimes if researchers get so close to their work that they &hellip; <a href="https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/03/02/unit-9-la3-bp1/">Continue reading <span>Unit 9 &ndash; LA3 &ndash;&nbsp;BP1</span></a>'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://mrwilliamsphysed.wordpress.com/2018/03/02/unit-9-la3-bp1/
published: true
post_date: 2018-03-01 21:05:51
---
<strong>The most important thing for me about the conclusions section of a high-quality research report is . . .</strong>

The first thing I look for in a high-quality conclusion in a research report is whether the claims being made are realistic. I often wonder sometimes if researchers get so close to their work that they lose some of the perspectives an outsider looking in might interpret. I often question research that makes broad generalizations about large topics or significant conclusions made from small data collections. Keeping perspective and making sensible conclusions are essential indicators to me that the research is high quality.

The second important factor I look for is whether the conclusion critically analyses the research undertaken. Having the willingness to critique and analyze your research demonstrates, in my opinion, an honesty by the author which in turn brings authenticity to the study being presented. As I read recently no research is perfect and to try and claim that it is can be counterintuitive.

The third and final key indicator I use to evaluate the quality of the conclusion is whether it links back to the literature and also can place itself into the broader topic area. What I mean by that is pretend a whole topic is a jigsaw puzzle, and that research is like the pieces. A good author I believe can have the ability to accurately demonstrate and justify where their piece belongs in the bigger picture. This helps mainly a consumer of research gain intimate knowledge of a topic quickly and efficiently.

<strong>Discussion Question</strong>

How can an author help maintain perspective on their work and conclusions they may present?

<a href="https://create.twu.ca/ldrs591-sp18/unit-9-learning-activities/">Learning Activity Link</a>