Three Foundational Questions  
A professor of mine often observed that humanity is vitally interested in three fundamental questions: What is real?  What is true?  What is good?   The philosophical category of metaphysics is concerned with what is real, and what is the nature of reality.  The philosophical category of epistemology is concerned with what is true, and what is the nature and process of knowing, and axiology is concerned with what is good, and how we can determine the nature of goodness.  Much of history is a chronicle of the different ways people have answered these three fundamental questions.

This discussion is foundational to what we want to accomplish in this course.  Earlier on when we touched on best practices I asked these questions: On what basis are sound decisions made?  What evidence do leaders rely upon for best outcomes?   The notion of “best” takes us directly into making value judgments—the domain of axiology.

I want to land briefly on epistemology, as the questions asked in epistemology are vital to our thinking in this course.  Epistemology is focused on how human beings can know anything at all, and when we have established that, when our knowing corresponds to reality we say we have found truth.

So, how do we know?  While this list is not exhaustive, we see around us three common approaches to knowing—the rational approach \(focused on logical thought\), the empirical approach \(focused on external evidence\) and the intuitive approach \(focused on insight and inner knowledge\).   Rational knowing \(what we will call “cognitive constructivist” below\) is the process of taking the bits and pieces of our experience of life and we put it together logically.  Empirical knowing rests on senses and information gathered by our senses.  Intuitive knowing consists of insight that cannot be rationally explained, but is none-the-less real.  Each of us has an epistemological preference, and manifestations of these preferences abound.   I want to suggest that each of the three preferences are legitimate, despite our personal preferences.

Whichever epistemological preference one has, we are all faced with a similar problem.  It is easy to say, “This I know!” when, if we are really honest, we really don’t know.  I want to suggest four processes that we must constantly keep wading through as we self-test our own knowledge:  
•    Consistency—it has to make logical sense.  
•    Coherency—it has to make sense as a whole.  That is not to say that mystery is disallowed.  
•    Comprehensive—it has to relate to the whole world as I know it.  
•    Congruent \(with reality\)—it has to match what is.  
As we get into looking at different research methodologies, we will see that great pains are taken to attend to these four.  Just to give a preview, the terms reliability and the various nuances of validity speak directly to issues of consistency and congruency.

Realism Versus Constructivism  
We see different approaches to the philosophical categories manifest in the realism that characterized modernism and the constructivism that characterizes post-modernism.  As realism exists in a number of variants, so does constructivism.  Irzik \(2001\) offers some help when he asserts that constructivism is concerned with three primary questions:  “Who does the constructing?  What is constructed? Out of what and how?” \(p. 158\).  Based on these three foundational questions, he goes on to distinguish between cognitive, epistemic, semantic and metaphysical constructivism \(p. 159; 165; 167\).

Leaning on Grandy, Irzik defines cognitive constructivism as “the view that ‘individual cognitive agents understand the world and make their way around in it by using mental representations that they have constructed’” \(2001, p. 159\).  Realists and cognitive constructivists alike contend that truth is found in the mind’s correspondence to reality, and that what we believe is only an approximation of reality, and every new observation has the potential of bringing us closer to understanding reality \(Blackburn, 2005, p. 188\).  The caption of René Magritte’s celebrated painting of a pipe entitled The Treachery of Images expressed it well:  “Ceci n'est pas une pipe.”  As Magritte observed, you could not stuff the painting as you would his pipe.  His point was that he painting is a representation of a real object, and not the real object itself.

The controversy begins when “it is claimed that not only mental representations but also knowledge \(including scientific knowledge\) is constructed” \(Irzik 2001, p. 159\). Metaphysical constructivism is set in contrast to metaphysical realism.  Metaphysical realism asserts that reality exists independently of our minds and thoughts, whereas metaphysical constructivism asserts that reality is constructed within our minds and thoughts.   Karl Popper stands as an example of a realist, while Ernst von Glaserfeld stands as a proponent of radical constructivism.   These two perspectives necessarily impact epistemology.

Epistemic constructivism is firmly grounded in a relativist epistemology which denies the possibility of anything being true in any absolute sense.  A wide range of positions are espoused regarding the definitions of knowledge, of truth, and the knowledge of truth.  We will here focus on two extremes—one which asserts essentially that no one can ever claim true knowledge and one which asserts that true knowledge is whatever people agree it to be.  The first extreme, von Glaserfeld’s “radical constructivism,” is so termed by von Glaserfeld expressly to distinguish his approach from forms of constructivism that do “not imply anything about epistemology” \(Joldersma 2011, p. 278\).  Essentially, von Glaserfeld’s epistemology \(answering the question “What is true?”\) rests on a denial of a reality beyond the individual’s construction \(Joldersma, 2011, p. 280\).  Because in von Glaserfeld’s conception you could never expect two people to build the same cognitive construct, one finds themself on the verge of a “pernicious relativism” \(Joldersma, 2011, 281\) in which we can never say that we know anything for sure.  Put another way, Irzik writes,  
The definition of knowledge, according to the standard account, involves a conception of truth as representation or belief which corresponds to an observer-independent reality; but since we have no access to \(i.e., no way of knowing\) such a reality independently of our representations, we cannot tell \(i.e. know\) whether our representations do really correspond and are therefore true; but is so, we can never know anything.  Such a conception makes knowledge impossible, or so von Glaserfeld contends.  \(Irzik 2001, p. 160\).

The second extreme, represented by the Strong Programme, espouses an epistemology that unsatisfyingly reduces knowledge to “what is collectively endorsed”, or “whatever people take to be knowledge” \(Irzik, 2001, p. 163\).  In this extreme, true knowledge is whatever people agree it to be.

Irzik’s semantical constructivism represents the view that “concepts and meanings of concepts and statements are not readily found in nature or society, but are constructed out of perceptual material by individuals” \(2001, p. 165\).  The meaning of “rose” is constructed by the abstraction of rose-experiences, and because experience is private and subjective, your rose-experiences contributing to your abstracted meaning of rose are not the same as mine, the best we can hope for is compatibility between our meanings.  We could never attain a truly shared meaning.   Pushed to its logical end, this would mean that since a reader of a text could never expect to know what an author meant, and since truly shared meaning is impossible, the reader is free to assign their own meaning to the text irrespective of authorial intent.

Metaphysical constructivism is set in contrast to metaphysical realism.  Metaphysical realism asserts that reality exists independently of our minds and thoughts, whereas metaphysical constructivism asserts that reality is constructed within our minds and thoughts.  Metaphysical constructivists can be further sub-divided into two camps; the individualistic is focused on “individual constructions of individual worlds, and the social, which postulates social constructions of shared worlds” \(Irzik, 2001, 167\).

It is beyond our purpose do go much more deeply into this other than to make the point that our basic philosophical bases influence our approach to all of life, including how we approach research.  While correlation does not imply causality, it is interesting that qualitative research methodologies have gained credibility only in recent times, corresponding to the rise of constructivism.

Quantitative and Qualitative Research Methodologies  
Systematic inquiry \(as represented by research\) is hardly new – in first century writings we see in the Bible evidence of systematic, logical, and empirical inquiry.  Consider the following passage from Luke, a physician trained in empirical methods of his day:

1Many have undertaken to draw up an account of the things that have been fulfilled\[a\] among us, 2 just as they were handed down to us by those who from the first were eyewitnesses and servants of the word. 3  With this in mind, since I myself have carefully investigated everything from the beginning, I too decided to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus, 4 so that you may know the certainty of the things you have been taught. \(Luke 1:1-4, NIV\)

The past two decades have seen remarkable growth within natural and applied sciences and humanities of the articulation of the foundations of research with a corresponding expansion of research methodologies.

Chapter 2 on Plano-Clark and Creswell \(2015\) provides an excellent discussion of the distinguishing features of quantitative and qualitative research methodologies.  I wish here only to underscore these salient points:  quantitative research is indicated by “a problem that calls for an explanation” and responds to narrow, focused questions by collecting quantifiable data which through statistical analysis, yields unbiased, objective results \(Plano-Clark & Creswell, 2015, p. 54\).  Qualitative research is indicated by “a problem that calls for an exploration,” and responds to broad, general questions by collecting non-quantifiable data which is described and analyzed “in a subjective and reflexive manner” \(p. 54\).

Contrary to Plano-Clark and Creswell, I want to suggest that the term “unbiased” as a descriptor of both qualitative and quantitative research.  As we get into this more deeply, you will see why I do that.  Bias exists in both quantitative and qualitative research—it comes in differently, and both approaches take great pains to eliminate it.  This takes us to our next section:  recognizing our own personal biases.

Recognition of Personal Bias

As we will see, researcher bias is a significant issue that recurs throughout the entire research process.  Scholars have observed that methodological choices are determined not only by the nature of the topic or problem being investigated and the resources available, but also by the particular training and socialization processes to which a researcher has been exposed.  This includes all of us, whether we are actually conductors of research or are consumers of research.  Gill and Johnson, in their book Research Methods for Managers \(2002\), offer a diagnostic exercise regarding one’s predispositions toward particular research approaches.

